# Market-Campaign---based-on-Reccomender-System
Apply Item based Collaborative Filtering to help with marketing campaign decision on two products

Executive Summary
Pernalonga, a leading supermarket chain, is partnering with one of its suppliers Mondelez to promote Oreo and Chips Ahoy! brand to gain market share in the Fine Wafers category, with marketing campaigns on personalized promotions. After analyzing transaction data on customers who purchased either in the Fine Wafers category or the Oreo or Chips Ahoy! brand, we conducted item-based collaborative filtering on 7,833 customers and 35 products to come up with customers to target with promotional offers for either Oreo or Chips Ahoy! wafers. A detailed list of customer IDs, expected incremental volumes and promotional offer discount rate is attached along with this report.
For this marketing campaign, Mondelez should target 688 customers for Oreo fine wafers, and 1,418 customers for Chips Ahoy! fine wafers, generating incremental volumes of 2,403 units and 5,491 units, respectively. Combining with unit price and average discount rates, this leads to an incremental revenue of $16,902, contributing to a 1.5% market share gain in the Fine Wafers category. 
On the flip side, since promotion offer discount rates are on average greater than profit margin, redemption costs for this marketing campaign will outweigh the profits generated with these incremental sales. Assuming a profit margin of 3%, running this campaign will lead to a loss of $3,935 for Mondelez.
As we can see here, besides gaining market share, Mondelez also have to consider the costs associated with these personalized promotion marketing campaigns – redemption costs often outweigh the profits generated. Mondelez have to measure long-term costs and benefits associated with market expansion to determine a strategy to strike a balance between gaining market share and maintaining a healthy bottom line.
